And I'm Linsey Davis. Tonight's meeting could be the most consequential event of their campaigns, with Election Day now less than two months away. For Vice President Kamala Harris, this is her first debate since President Biden withdrew from the race on July 21st. Of course, that decision followed his debate against President Donald Trump in June. Since then, this race has taken on an entirely new dynamic.
President Trump won the coin toss. He chose to deliver the final closing statement of the evening. Vice President Harris selected the podium to the right.
Good evening, we are looking forward to a spirited and thoughtful debate.
I want to turn to the issue of abortion. President Trump, you've often touted that you were able to kill Roe v. Wade. Last year, you said that you were proud to be the most pro-life president in American history. Then last month you said that your administration would be great for women and their reproductive rights. In your home state of Florida, you surprised many, uh, with regard to your six-week abortion ban because you initially had said that it was too short and you said, "I'm going to be voting that we need more than six weeks." But then the very next day, you reversed course and said you would vote to support the six-week ban. Vice President Harris says that women shouldn't trust you on the issue of abortion because you've changed your position so many times. Therefore, why should they trust you?
There is no state in this country where it is legal to kill a baby after it's born. Madam Vice-President, I want to get your response to President Trump.
Thank you, Vice President Harris.
Would you veto a national abortion ban if it came to your desk--
But if I could just get a Yes or No. Because your running mate jen--J.D. Vance has said that you would veto if it did come to your desk.
Vice President Harris, I want to give you your time to respond. But I do want to ask, would you support any restrictions on a woman's right to an abortion?
Vice President Harris--
President Trump, thank you.
Vice President Harris, in your last run for president [crosstalk]
Vice President Harris, in your last run for president you said you wanted to ban fracking. Now you don't. You wanted mandatory government buyback programs for assault weapons. Now your campaign says you don't. You supported decriminalizing border crossings. Now you're taking a harder line. I know you say that your values have not changed. So then why have so many of your policy positions changed?
President Trump, your response.
President Trump--[crosstalk]
President Trump, we have a lot of issues that we have to get to. We're out of time. Thank you.
Turning now to the Israel-Hamas war and the hostages who are still being held, Americans among them. Vice President Harris, in December you said, "Israel has a right to defend itself" but you added, "It matters how." Saying, "International humanitarian law must be respected, Israel must do more to protect innocent civilians." You said that nine months ago. Now an estimated 40,000 Palestinians are dead. Nearly 100 hostages remain. Just last week Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said there's not a deal in the making. President Biden has not been able to break through the stalemate. How would you do it?
President Trump, how would you negotiate with Netanyahu and also Hamas in order to get the hostages out and prevent the killing of more innocent civilians in Gaza?
Vice President Harris, he says you hate Israel.
Vice President Harris--
Vice President Harris, thank you.
President Trump--
Thank you. We have a lot of issues to get to.
President Trump, this is now your third time --
President Trump, we have to move on. President Trump --[crosstalk]
President Trump we do have to--
President Trump, President Trump.
I'm sorry, we're going to move on, Vice President Harris. [To President Trump:] This is now your third time running for president. you have long vowed to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. You have failed to accomplish that. You now say you're going to keep Obamacare. Quote, unless we can do something much better. Last month you said, quote, we're working on it. So tonight, nine years after you first started running, do you have a plan and can you tell us what it is?
So just a yes or no, you still do not have a plan?
Vice president Harris, in 2017 you supported Bernie Sanders' proposal to do away with private insurance and create a government-run health care system. Two years later you proposed a plan that included a private insurance option. What is your plan today?
Thank you--
I want to move to an issue that's important --
President Trump--
President Trump, thank you. We have another issue that we'd like to get to that's important for a number of Americans, in particular younger voters, and that's climate change. President Trump, with regard to the environment, you say that we have to have clean air and clean water. Vice President Harris, you call climate change an existential threat. The question to you both tonight is what would you do to fight climate change? And Vice President Harris, we'll start with you. One minute for you each.
Vice President Harris, thank you.
President Trump, thank you.
Vice President Harris, thank you. President Trump?
President Trump thank you. And that is our ABC News presidential debate from here in Philadelphia at the National Constitution Center. I'm Linsey Davis.